# VMPlaceSim

This repository contains the code of VMPlaceSim, a simulator for analysing VM placement strategies for their resource utilisation and co-location resistance.

If you use the simulator for research purposes, please cite the following paper:
Jens Lindemann. 2023. How to hide your VM from the big bad wolf? Co-location resistance vs. resource utilisation in VM placement strategies. In: Proceedings of the 18th International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security (ARES 2023), August 29-September 1, 2023, Benevento, Italy. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 41, 11 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3600160.3604983

A freely available copy of the paper can be downloaded [here](https://svs.informatik.uni-hamburg.de/publications/2023/2023-08-30-Lindemann-HowToHideYourVM.pdf) and contains additional information about the placement simulator as well as an analysis of some placement strategies.

The main class is PlacementSimulator.java. This class can be controlled via a command-line interface. Calling it with the parameter --help shows the available options.

To perform a simulation, the cloud workload has to be specified. This has to be provided in the form of a CSV file. The simulator will then start and shut down VMs according to the workload file.

In the paper, the publicly available Microsoft Azure dataset V2 is used for this purpose. It represents a representative subset of the VM workload in the Azure cloud over 30 days in 2019. Information about the dataset used are available [on Github](https://github.com/Azure/AzurePublicDataset/blob/master/AzurePublicDatasetV2.md). Note that only vmtable.csv is required for running a simulation. Custom workloads can be defined by defining VMs in a CSV file using the same syntax.

The statistics generated by the simulator are output as CSV files. The CLI can be used to control what statistics are to be generated. Also, many statistics can be generated in regular intervals throughout the experiment to monitor changes over time. These intervals can also be configured via the CLI. Further information about the metrics supported by the simulator can be found in the paper.

Additional placement strategies can be added by extending the abstract PlacementStrategy class. Furthermore, the newly inplemented class needs to be added to the CLI in the main VMPlaceSim class.
